.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Samuel Mendes
.\" 
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" 
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" * Neither the name of ᐱ nor the names of its
.\" contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd April 15, 2010
.Dt BAYES 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bayes
.Nd bayes command execution
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl vh
.Op Fl sf
.Op Fl tgrd
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility provides a simple bayesian classifier .
.Pp
Available options:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl v Fl Fl version
Display the actual version number.
.It Fl f Fl Fl file Ar path
Save/Load classifier training to/from a file.
.It Fl s Fl Fl save
Save the changes in -f file before exiting.
.It Fl t Fl Fl train Ar cat Ar path
Uses path as training data for a category.
.It Fl g Fl Fl guess Ar path
Guess to which category path is belonging.
.It Fl r Fl Fl strip Ar level
Remove any token with a total count lower than level.
.It Fl d Fl Fl dump
Print out the whole content of the classifier.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following train a classifier to learn 
.Ar english
on 
.Ar shakespeare.txt 
and saves it in
.Ar classifier.bks .
.Dl Nm Fl f Pa classifier.bks Fl s Fl t Pa english Pa shakespeare.txt
.Pp
We can reuse the previous training as long as we keep
.Ar classifier.bks .
To train it some more:
.Dl Nm Fl f Pa classifier.bks Fl s Fl t Pa french Pa moliere.txt
.Pp
To ask the classifier to which language belongs
.Ar mystery.txt :
.Dl Nm Fl f Pa classifier.bks Fl g Pa mystery.txt
.Pp
Wildcards can also be used:
.Dl Nm Fl f Pa classifier.bks Fl g Pa mysteries*
.Pp
To try a guess with a modified training, but without overwritting
.Ar classifier.bks :
.Dl Nm Fl f Pa classifier.bks Fl t Pa italian Pa dante.txt Fl g Pa mystery.txt
.Pp
The options 
.Ar file
and
.Ar save
are processed in priority and can be placed anywhere.
Saving will only be done just before a sucessful exit.
The options
.Ar train ,
.Ar guess and
.Ar strip
are processed in order of appearance within the argument list.
